Hello, my name is Ruben and it's my honor to be with you in today's message takeaway. We'll be looking at Mark chapter 10 verses 17 through 31 and we'll talk
And we'll talk, we'll be talking about today about money and how a relationship with Jesus changes our perspective of money and generosity. And I've got to be honest with you, having conversations
Having conversations about money and finances hasn't always been a comfortable subject for me. In fact, it was just yesterday that I was talking with a young leader.
about one of the challenges of being a pastor and one of them being having conversations about money. And I think for me, at least for me, it was really because I didn't understand it as a young leader.
Young leader growing up, learning how to manage money, learning how to utilize money and be generous was really something I had to learn. And today, as we go
As we go through the message takeaway, we're going to be touching on a couple of these points. And I pray it encourages your heart. It encourages your small group. It helps you live out the way.
the way that Jesus wants us to handle money. And so if you've got your Bible, we're going to look at Mark chapter 10, and we're going to start in verse 17. I'm just going to kind of touch on a couple of things.
And so in verse 17, what the Bible says is, And so in verse 17, what the Bible says is, And so in verse 17, what the Bible says is, And so in verse 17, what the Bible says is,
"'Fell on his knees before him. "'Good teacher,' he asked. "'Oh!'
What must I do to inherit eternal life? And if you heard the message this weekend, you realize and you know already that Jesus is having a conversation with a rich man.
man.
and this rich man is asking jesus a question. and the truth is, i don't know if it's true for you, but i know for me, sometimes we ask the lord questions.
We've got these questions that we bring to him and we say, my goodness,
"'Lord, what should I do with this area "'or this thing in my life?'
And this rich man is doing nothing different. He's bringing his questions to the Lord. And if you jump down further to verse 21, we see some of the interaction.
The interactions that Jesus had back with him.
But before I jump down to those verses, I want to ask you,
What's your questions for the Lord today?
If you were to have a dialogue with him,
What would this dialogue be about? You see, money is a heart-dwelling
issue.
Money reaches the very depths of
who we are and maybe some of our greatest fears as well as some of our greatest dreams.
And I believe that this is why we see this dialogue happening here in Mark chapter 10, because it is a heart issue.
But money is not the only heart issue.
You may have questions around another serious heart thing. What are your questions for the Lord today?
If you were to have a dialogue with him, what would come up?
What would come out? My prayer is as we go through these verses that you're able to ask yourself those questions and really begin to see him give you a plan to address those things. Verse 10.
In verse 21, the Bible says here with us, Jesus looked at him and
And loved him.
"One thing you lack," he said.
Go sell everything you have
And give to the poor.
You will have treasures in heaven.
Then come and follow me.
At this, the man's face fell. He went away sad.
because he had
Great wealth.
The truth is, is we all know it.
You could have everything and still have an empty heart.
And here in this verse, this man's
They answered that he heard from the Lord Jesus, made him sad because he
His money issue was something that grabbed a hold of his heart.
But notice in verse 21, the Bible says, as Jesus looked at him, he loved him.
No matter what has a grab on your heart today, know that Jesus loves you and he's going to love you through your problem from point A to point Z. I can
And remember, in my own life, as a young teenager, I was trying to figure out how to manage my own money and trying to figure out what a budget was and having my dad speaking to my life.
Life and and help and direct me. It was. It was a challenge for me. I remember my first semester at college there was a. There was a discover card.
Our table and everything.
i just got done with a basketball ah game and my shirt was all sweaty and they were offering.
Free t-shirts
If you signed up for a credit card, of course I needed a new t-shirt to get to class and so
I signed up for a credit card.
and that credit card came in handy a couple times when i didn't have any cash. i didn't really get the concept. you know you don't have cash you put it on credit but you have to have the cash later to pay off that credit card.
I ended up putting an entire semester
College on a credit card because it was just
Simple and easy.
and it all started because of a t-shirt.
And I found myself in trouble.
for the next seven years trying to figure out how to pay that credit card off. It got a grip of my life. It got a hold of me. It became this easy way out because I didn't do my
I didn't want to do the hard work of filling out all of my financial aid paperwork and getting all those applications together and figuring all the details out that were so difficult. It was just easy.
It's easy. And then before I knew it, I was trapped into a seven-year repayment program program.
And I wasn't willing to ask for help. I didn't tell anybody about it because I was embarrassed. I was ashamed
And that's the whole point here, isn't it? Is that Jesus wants us to open our hearts. He wants us to
To expose the areas that we want to hide because he loves us.
No matter what.
No matter what, when we're willing to open our hearts, he's willing to step in there into those dirty places and help us, through his generous love, show us how to take walk, take steps.
Take steps out of that area. The truth is, is that today, today,
No matter what your campus is, there's options for you to learn.
whether it be a financial peace university class, whether it be sitting down and talking with a biblical counselor about whatever situation you are going through, they are
There are answers and there are people that you can connect with to help define solutions for whatever is gripping your heart today. Let's look at verse 23 real quick in the same chapter.
In chapter, the Bible says, Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, how hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God.
And the truth is, is that whatever grabs our heart,
It's hard for us.
It's hard for us to let it go. It's hard for us to trust God in the midst of that difficult season or that difficult circumstance. Jesus says this same statement.
Name statement again later on in the chapter and in verse 27, he says, Jesus looked at them and said, with men, this is impossible, but not with God.
with God.
All things are possible with God.
And so what is it that you lack today?
What is it that you're going through? What is it that has gripped your life? You may look on and say, man, this seems to be impossible. The circumstance that I'm going through seems to be impossible.
This thing that I can't see the light at the end of the tunnel. My encouragement for you today is
is to evaluate and ask yourself that question. Because honestly, there are times where we'll let people in part of the way.
Or maybe we're willing to talk about something that is kind of affecting us.
But maybe not fully go all the way there.
So today as we're kind of bringing this talk to a close and before I say go into your small groups,
I want to encourage you to start thinking even right now.
What is that thing?
What is that thing that you sense this is where I have lack?
This is where I'm like that rich man.
when i asked jesus the question and he gives me that answer in love.
I'm just struggling in this area.
Wherever it is, know that
Jesus is going to love you.
Know that there are
The solutions and answers in his word are
And know that you have a body of Christ around you that wants to surround you and help you to walk forward in freedom.
I can tell you today with confidence that the
Through the help of our great God.
And through the wisdom that we found in his scripture and the brothers and sisters around me,
I've learned about financial freedom.
And I know the freedom that comes from saying no so that I can say yes to the thing that God wants me to say yes to.
Be able to say i'm going to delay that gratification
And I'm going to be able to pursue the promises, pursue
The values pursue
The things that God says, here's where I want you to spend your money. Here's where I want you to invest your money. Here's where I want you to be generous. Here's how I want you to help others.
You bless that person or help your son or your daughter
Or move towards that dream that you have in your life when you're able to
Hear his voice.
Submit your ways to him.
And allow him to create that preferred future.
I'm telling you, the freedom that comes from this,
They create such a peace in your heart and and that's what god wants for you today that's what we want for you and our prayer is that you're willing to start that process if your issue is not about money please
Maybe it's about something else.
And whatever it is, I want to encourage you to begin to open up about it.
in your group time and maybe ask a couple of these questions today. Today in your group, talk about the challenges that you have had with money.
maybe what are the areas in your life that you are experiencing lack.
And finally, how can you walk confidently with God today?
There was a song that I was taught when I was a kid.
And the song is, "With Christ in the vessel, you can smile at the storm." And when we were in Sunday school class,
The Sunday school teacher would sing this song with us. We even had hand motions that went with it. And little did I know that as an adult now, I would have to
Rest on that song
So I want to rest on that reminder that that song comes from a story in Matthew chapter 8 where the disciples were in a storm. They were on a boat on the lake that had turned into a really bad storm.
Bad storm.
And Jesus was asleep on the storm. When he woke up, when the disciples woke him, he spoke to the wind in the waves and they calmed.
And so whatever storm you're in the middle of today,
Know that God is sovereign.
No matter what
When or wave is freaking you out today know that the Lord is able to speak to that storm
to speak to your heart, your soul, and give you peace today. Begin to open up.
You need to look through some options to address that issue, whatever it is, and find peace today. I want to pray for you. Lord, I thank you for every person that's watching, and I pray, God,
as we've analyzed a generous God.
I pray, Lord, that whatever picture is in our mind about who God is and what God is,
And how that relates to us, I pray, God, that we would let our guard down and let you in.
And as we do that, I pray, and as we let our brothers and sisters in around us, I ask God that you would help us change, that we would not look different when we walk out of our group time,
We would look completely changed because of what you're doing and that we would have a confidence in who you are and what you're doing in our life. And so God, we promise to give you glory from all that you do.
you do. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
God bless you. Thanks for listening today.